name  role  phone  location  email
Dr Therese Lawlor-Wright  Visitor  0161-2754411  Pariser Building - E15  therese.lawlor-wright@manchester.ac.uk  

BIOGRAPHY: 
Therese Lawlor-Wright is a Chartered Mechanical Engineer who joined the University of Manchester as a lecturer in 2008. She holds a degree in Industrial Engineering from the National University of Ireland in Galway and an MSc in Advanced Manufacturing and a PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Manchester.
Therese has worked in industry as a project manager and knowledge management consultant, completing successful projects with ICL, BT and local manufacturing engineering companies. She previously led a research team at the University of Salford in the area of knowledge-based design and supervised PhD and knowledge transfer projects in manufacturing engineering. She also worked as a research fellow in the Health and Care Infrastructure Research and Innovation Centre at the University of Salford, focusing on knowledge and performance management.
With experience in diverse sectors, Therese's research interests are in the management of complex projects - particularly in performance improvement in multidisciplinary and multicultural environments. She is a member of the Association for Project Management and the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.

RESEARCH: 
Performance Management
Knowledge Management
New Product Introduction
Lean Methods

PUBLICATION: 
A El Tigani, Paul Gardiner, Therese Lawlor-Wright. Building Capabilities through the Implementation of Business Excellence Models: A Practice Turn View. Building Capabilities through the Implementation of Business Excellence Models: A Practice Turn View.  eScholarID: ma1503
Azim, S, Andrew W  Gale, Therese  Lawlor-Wright, A  Khan, and M  Alam. The Benefits of Soft Skills in Complex Projects: The Reality of \'Actuality\'. IPMA World Congress 15th - 17th June 2009, Helsinki www.refresh09.com. 2009:  eScholarID: 2e1018
Lawlor-Wright T, Hannam R. A Feature-based Design for Manufacture CADCAM package. Computer-aided Engineering Journal. 1989 December;  eScholarID: 1e699

